Like birds, cats have a homing ability that uses its biological clock, the angle of the sun, and the Earth's magnetic field. A cat taken far from its home can return to it. But if a cat's owners move far from its home, the cat can't find them.
A sexually-active feral tom-cat \owns\" an area of about three square miles and \""sprays\"" to mark his territory with strong smelling urine."""
Cats have supersonic hearing
Normal body temperature for a cat is 102 degrees F.
A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.
Long, muscular hind legs enable snow leopards to leap seven times their own body length in a single bound.
When a cat chases its prey, it keeps its head level. Dogs and humans bob their heads up and down.
A healthy cat has a temperature between 38 and 39 degrees Celcius.
Edward Lear, author of \The Owl and the Pussycat\"", is said to have had his new house in San Remo built to exactly the same specification as his previous residence, so that his much-loved tabby, Foss, would immediately feel at home."""
The cat appears to be the only domestic companion animal not mentioned in the Bible.
The group of words associated with cat (catt, cath, chat, katze) stem from the Latin catus, meaning domestic cat, as opposed to feles, or wild cat.
Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
Cats' eyes shine in the dark because of the tapetum, a reflective layer in the eye, which acts like a mirror.
Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.
The Maine Coone is the only native American long haired breed.
Many cats love having their forehead gently stroked.
When a cat drinks, its tongue - which has tiny barbs on it - scoops the liquid up backwards.
In 1987 cats overtook dogs as the number one pet in America.
The cat who holds the record for the longest non-fatal fall is Andy. He fell from the 16th floor of an apartment building (about 200 ft/.06 km) and survived.
There are more than 500 million domestic cats in the world, with approximately 40 recognized breeds.
The earliest ancestor of the modern cat lived about 30 million years ago. Scientists called it the Proailurus, which means “first cat” in Greek. The group of animals that pet cats belong to emerged around 12 million years ago.
Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.
The first formal cat show was held in England in 1871; in America, in 1895.
A cat's normal pulse is 140-240 beats per minute, with an average of 195.
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.
A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. 
Heat occurs several times a year and can last anywhere from 3 to 15 days.
During the Middle Ages, cats were associated with withcraft, and on St. John’s Day, people all over Europe would stuff them into sacks and toss the cats into bonfires. On holy days, people celebrated by tossing cats from church towers.
Cats have "nine lives" thanks to a flexible spine and powerful leg and back muscles
A cat sees about 6 times better than a human at night, and needs 1/6 the amount of of light that a human does - it has a layer of extra reflecting cells which absorb light.
After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.
Many cats cannot properly digest cow's milk. Milk and milk products give them diarrhea.
Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.
The average cat food meal is the equivalent to about five mice.
A cat's smell is their strongest sense, and they rely on this leading sense to identify people and objects; a feline's sense of smell is 14x better than a human's.
British cat owners spend roughly 550 million pounds yearly on cat food.
Cats are subject to gum disease and to dental caries. They should have their teeth cleaned by the vet or the cat dentist once a year.
Purring does not always indicate that a cat is happy. Cats will also purr loudly when they are distressed or in pain.
A cat has two vocal chords, and can make over 100 sounds.
Cats often overract to unexpected stimuli because of their extremely sensitive nervous system.
A female cat will be pregnant for approximately 9 weeks or between 62 and 65 days from conception to delivery.
Cat's urine glows under a black light.
All cats have claws, and all except the cheetah sheath them when at rest.
Spanish-Jewish folklore recounts that Adam’s first wife, Lilith, became a black vampire cat, sucking the blood from sleeping babies. This may be the root of the superstition that a cat will smother a sleeping baby or suck out the child’s breath.
Jaguars are the only big cats that don't roar.
The cat's tail is used to maintain balance.
A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).
Cats can judge within 3 inches the precise location of a sound being made 1 yard away.
The most traveled cat is Hamlet, who escaped from his carrier while on a flight. He hid for seven weeks behind a panel on the airplane. By the time he was discovered, he had traveled nearly 373,000 miles (600,000 km).
A cat almost never meows at another cat, mostly just humans. Cats typically will spit, purr, and hiss at other cats.
Today there are about 100 distinct breeds of the domestic cat.
A cat usually has about 12 whiskers on each side of its face.
When a cats rubs up against you, the cat is marking you with it's scent claiming ownership.
A cat has the power to sometimes heal themselves by purring. A domestic cat's purr has a frequency of between 25 and 150 Hertz, which happens to be the frequency at which muscles and bones best grow and repair themselves. 
The cat's clavicle, or collarbone, does not connect with other bones but is buried in the muscles of the shoulder region. This lack of a functioning collarbone allows them to fit through any opening the size of their head.
When a family cat died in ancient Egypt, family members would mourn by shaving off their eyebrows. They also held elaborate funerals during which they drank wine and beat their breasts. The cat was embalmed with a sculpted wooden mask and the tiny mummy was placed in the family tomb or in a pet cemetery with tiny mummies of mice.
A cat’s heart beats nearly twice as fast as a human heart, at 110 to 140 beats a minute.
The average cat can jump 8 feet in a single bound, nearly six times its body length!
The first true cats came into existence about 12 million years ago and were the Proailurus.
A female cat is called a queen or a molly.
A cat rubs against people not only to be affectionate but also to mark out its territory with scent glands around its face. The tail area and paws also carry the cat’s scent.
A cat lover is called an Ailurophilia (Greek: cat+lover).
Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.
Isaac Newton invented the cat flap. Newton was experimenting in a pitch-black room. Spithead, one of his cats, kept opening the door and wrecking his experiment. The cat flap kept both Newton and Spithead happy.
Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.
Since cats are so good at hiding illness, even a single instance of a symptom should be taken very seriously.
Cats can be right-pawed or left-pawed.
Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.
The Maine Coon cat is America's only natural breed of domestic feline. It is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.
Cats dislike citrus scent.
A domestic cat can run at speeds of 30 mph.
The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.
The Maine Coon is 4 to 5 times larger than the Singapura, the smallest breed of cat.
The first cartoon cat was Felix the Cat in 1919. In 1940, Tom and Jerry starred in the first theatrical cartoon “Puss Gets the Boot.” In 1981 Andrew Lloyd Weber created the musical Cats, based on T.S. Eliot’s Old Possum’s Book of Practical Cats.
Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.
A cat has 230 bones in its body. A human has 206. A cat has no collarbone, so it can fit through any opening the size of its head.
Unlike humans, cats cannot detect sweetness which likely explains why they are not drawn to it at all.
Tigers are excellent swimmers and do not avoid water.
Lions are the only cats that live in groups, called prides. Every female within the pride is usually related.
The first commercially cloned pet was a cat named "Little Nicky." He cost his owner $50,000, making him one of the most expensive cats ever.
Female cats tend to be right pawed, while male cats are more often left pawed. Interestingly, while 90% of humans are right handed, the remaining 10% of lefties also tend to be male.
The world’s rarest coffee, Kopi Luwak, comes from Indonesia where a wildcat known as the luwak lives. The cat eats coffee berries and the coffee beans inside pass through the stomach. The beans are harvested from the cat’s dung heaps and then cleaned and roasted. Kopi Luwak sells for about $500 for a 450 g (1 lb) bag.
Cats spend nearly 1/3 of their waking hours cleaning themselves.
A cat can’t climb head first down a tree because every claw on a cat’s paw points the same way. To get down from a tree, a cat must back down.
Cats respond most readily to names that end in an \ee\" sound."""
Blue-eyed, pure white cats are frequently deaf.
Of all the species of cats, the domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. All species of wild cats hold their tail horizontally or tucked between their legs while walking.
Cats are extremely sensitive to vibrations. Cats are said to detect earthquake tremors 10 or 15 minutes before humans can.
Ancient Egyptian family members shaved their eyebrows in mourning when the family cat died.
After humans, mountain lions have the largest range of any mammal in the Western Hemisphere.
One reason that kittens sleep so much is because a growth hormone is released only during sleep.
Cats come back to full alertness from the sleep state faster than any other creature.
Cats have 32 muscles that control the outer ear (humans have only 6). A cat can independently rotate its ears 180 degrees.
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.
Mountain lions are strong jumpers, thanks to muscular hind legs that are longer than their front legs.
Cats have supersonic hearing
The smallest wildcat today is the Black-footed cat. The females are less than 20 inches (50 cm) long and can weigh as little as 2.5 lbs (1.2 kg).
The average lifespan of an outdoor-only (feral and non-feral) is about 3 years; an indoor-only cat can live 16 years and longer. Some cats have been documented to have a longevity of 34 years.
Foods that should not be given to cats include onions, garlic, green tomatoes, raw potatoes, chocolate, grapes, and raisins. Though milk is not toxic, it can cause an upset stomach and gas. Tylenol and aspirin are extremely toxic to cats, as are many common houseplants. Feeding cats dog food or canned tuna that’s for human consumption can cause malnutrition.
The ancestor of all domestic cats is the African Wild Cat which still exists today.
A commemorative tower was built in Scotland for a cat named Towser, who caught nearly 30,000 mice in her lifetime.
Cat bites are more likely to become infected than dog bites.
A cat can spend five or more hours a day grooming himself.
A cats field of vision is about 185 degrees.
The normal body temperature of a cat is between 100.5 ° and 102.5 °F. A cat is sick if its temperature goes below 100 ° or above 103 °F.
Cats sleep 16 to 18 hours per day. When cats are asleep, they are still alert to incoming stimuli. If you poke the tail of a sleeping cat, it will respond accordingly.
Cats and kittens should be acquired in pairs whenever possible as cat families interact best in pairs.
Cats make about 100 different sounds. Dogs make only about 10.
On average, cats spend 2/3 of every day sleeping. That means a nine-year-old cat has been awake for only three years of its life.
Not every cat gets \high\" from catnip. Whether or not a cat responds to it depends upon a recessive gene: no gene"
Milk can give some cats diarrhea.
The technical term for a cat’s hairball is a “bezoar.”
Cats lap liquid from the underside of their tongue, not from the top.
According to a Gallup poll, most American pet owners obtain their cats by adopting strays.
A cat’s eyesight is both better and worse than humans. It is better because cats can see in much dimmer light and they have a wider peripheral view. It’s worse because they don’t see color as well as humans do. Scientists believe grass appears red to cats.
A cat cannot see directly under its nose.
When a domestic cat goes after mice, about 1 pounce in 3 results in a catch.
Kittens remain with their mother till the age of 9 weeks.
A cat uses its whiskers for measuring distances.  The whiskers of a cat are capable of registering very small changes in air pressure.
Cats lose almost as much fluid in the saliva while grooming themselves as they do through urination.
A cat’s nose pad is ridged with a unique pattern, just like the fingerprint of a human.
A kitten will typically weigh about 3 ounces at birth.  The typical male housecat will weigh between  7 and 9 pounds, slightly less for female housecats.
The tiniest cat on record is Mr. Pebbles, a 2-year-old cat that weighed 3 lbs (1.3 k) and was 6.1 inches (15.5 cm) high.
Cats are North America’s most popular pets: there are 73 million cats compared to 63 million dogs. Over 30% of households in North America own a cat.
A cat called Dusty has the known record for the most kittens. She had more than 420 kittens in her lifetime.
The domestic cat is the only species able to hold its tail vertically while walking. You can also learn about your cat's present state of mind by observing the posture of his tail.
